you
this lecture is about the synthetic
marital relation discovery and entropy
in this lecture we're going to continue
talking about the word association
mining in particular we're going to talk
about how to discover syntactic america
relations and we're going to start with
the introduction of entropy which is the
basis for designing some measures for
discovering such relations by definition
syntagmatic the relations hold between
words that have correlated at
co-occurrences that means when we see
one word occurs in context we tend to
see the occurrence of the other world so
take a more specific example yeah we can
ask the question when ever eats occurs
what other words also tend to occur now
looking at the sentences on the Left
we'll see some words and might occur
together with eats like a cat dog or
fish in spite and but if I take them out
and if you look at the right side where
we only show eat and some other words
the question then is can you predict
what other words occur to the left or to
the right right so this would force us
or think about what other words are
associated with eat they are associated
with it they they tend to occur in the
context of means so more specifically
our prediction problem is to take any
attacks in a segment which can be a
sentence a paragraph or a document and
then I ask the question is a particular
word present or absent in this segment
right here we asked the question about
the word w is w present or absent in the
same now what's interesting is that some
words are actually easier for it again
there other words if you take a look at
the three words shown here meet the and
unicorn which one do you think is easier
to predict
now if you think about it for a moment
you might conclude that there is easier
to predict because it tends to occur
everywhere so I can just say well that
would be in descendants Unicom is also
relatively easy because unicorn is rare
it's very rare and I can bet that it
doesn't occur in this sentence but meat
is somewhere in between in terms of
frequency and it makes it hard to
predict because it's possible that it
occurs in the sentence or the segment
more accurately but they also not occur
in the segment so now let's study this
problem more formally all right so the
problem can be formally defined as
predicting the value of a binary random
variable here we denoted by X sub W WT
nodes award so this random variable is
associated with precisely one world when
the value of the variable is 1 it means
this word is present when it's 0 it
means the world is absent and naturally
the probabilities for 1 & 0 should sum
to 1 because a word is either present or
absent in the segment there's no other
choice
so the intuition with this castle
earlier can be formally stated as
follows the more random this random
variable is the more difficulty the
prediction would be now the question is
how does one quantitatively measure the
randomness of a random variable like X
sub W how in general can we quantify the
randomness of a variable and that's why
we need a measure called the entropy and
this is a measure introduced in
information theory to measure the
randomness of an X the results were some
connection with the information here but
that's beyond the scope of this course
so for our purpose we just treat the
entropy function as a function defined
on the random variable in this case it's
a binary random variable although the
definition can be easily generalized for
a random variable with multiple values
now the function form looks like this
there's a sum over all the possible
values for this random variable inside
the sum for each value we have a product
of the probability that the random
variable equals this value and the log
of this probability and note that there
is also a negative sign there now
entropy in general is non-negative and
that can be mathematically proved so if
we expand that this sum we'll see the
equation looks like the signal arm
well I explicitly plug in the two values
0 and 1 and sometimes when we have 0 log
of 0 we would generally define that as 0
because log of 0 is undefined so this is
the entropy function and this function
would give a different value for
different distributions of this random
variable and this clear it clear depends
on the probability that the random
variable taking value of 1 or 0 if we
plot this function against the
probability that the random random
variable is equal to 1 and then the
function looks like this I at the two
ends that means when the probability of
x equals 1 is very small or very large
then the entropy function has a lower
value when it's point 5 in the middle
then it reaches the maximum now if we
plot the function against the
probability that the X is taking a value
of 0 and if the function would show
exactly the same curve here and you can
imagine why and that
and so that's because the two
probabilities are symmetric and
completely symmetric so interesting
question you don't think about in
general here is for what kind of X does
the entropy reach maximum or minimum and
we can in particular think about some
special cases for example in one case we
might have a random variable that always
takes the value of 1 the probability is
1 is 1 or there's a random variable that
is equal likely taking a value of 1 or 0
so in this case the probability that x
equals 1 is 0.5 now which one has a
higher entropy it's easier to look at
the problem by thinking of a simple
example using coin tossing so when we
think about the random experiment like a
tossing a coin it gives us a random
variable that can represent the result
it can be head or tail so we can define
a random variable X sub coin so that
it's 1 when the coin shows up as head
it's 0 when the coin shows up as tap so
now we can compute the entropy of this
this random variable and this entropy
indicates how difficult it is to predict
the outcome of a coin of a coin tossing
so we can think about the two cases one
is a fair coin it's completely fair the
coin shows up as head or tail equally
likely so the two probabilities would be
1/2 I suppose we have both I equal to
1/2 another extreme case is completely
biased coin where the coin always shows
up as head so it's
completely by a biased coin now let's
think about the entry base in the two
cases and if you plug in these values
you can see the entropy would be as
follows for a fair coin we see the
entropy reaches its maximum that's one
for the completely biased coin we see
it's 0 and that intuitively makes a lot
of sense because a fair coin is most of
difficulty to predict whereas a
completely biased coin is very easy to
predict that we can always say well it's
hat because it is ahead all the time so
they can be assumed on the curve as
follows
right so the fair coin corresponds to
the middle point it's very uncertain the
completely biased coin corresponds to
the end point where we have a
probability of 1 point 2 0 and then 2p
is 0 so now let's see how we can use n
to pay for water prediction now the
problem the thing about our problem is
to predict whether W is present or
absent in this segment again think about
the three words particularly think about
their interface now we can assume high
entropy words are harder to predict and
so we will now have a quantitative way
to tell us which word is harder to
predict now if you look at the three
words meet the Unicom again and we
clearly would expect a meet to have a
high entropy than the or Unicom in fact
if you look at the entropy of the it's
close to zero because the curves
everywhere so it's like a completely
biased coin therefore the entropy is
zero